hello everyone this is Paul Berger le
reporting for a blab an aviation
consumer from diamond-- aircraft
headquarters at London Ontario this is a
diamond eclipse one of the most popular
trainers on the market today
one thing that customers of these
airplanes have asked for is some kind of
a glass cockpit and now diamond is
beginning to offer that in the form of
the Aspen AFD Diamond is offering two
versions of the Aspen system the basic
pilot is a $8,000 add-on to the standard
price of the airplane and the digital
pro is a $10,000 add-on let's take a
closer look at what these systems can do
to try out the Aspen system in the da20
I flew with diamond test pilot Rob
Johnson in some ways the da20 is the
perfect candidate for minimal glass
because of the airplanes and here in
simplicity it's a shame that diamond
never certified the katana and Eclipse
series for legal IFR because the
airplane really is a perfect platform
for instrument flying as installed in
the da20 the Aspen occupies front and
center and the space normally used for
an attitude gyro and a directional
indicator
although the Aspen has its own GPS
receiver that's for attitude enhancement
not navigation so the system gets its
position data from a Garmin gns 430
since this is basic glass what you get
in the Aspen is an attitude indicator
and an e HSI on the bottom of the
display all the basic stuff is there but
there's plenty of additional data
including things like bug speed and
altitude true airspeed and ground speed
wind vectors outside air temperature
just name a few the Aspen is no g1000
that's for sure but it's technically
deep you can access multiple nav sources
for instance and customize a display to
a certain extent because of its small
cabin size in the da20 the display is
just the right distance from the pilots
eyeballs so it's more readable than it
might be in larger aircraft during our
trial flight we did some inoue vereen
and navigation including an ILS back
into london between the GN s 430 in the
ass
plays instrument approaches are about as
simple as it gets with the announcement
system in this clip you can see how the
Aspen displays both courts guidance and
glideslope on an ILS from the boys will
be boys Department Johnson asked if I'd
ever seen how glass behaves in an upset
scenario no well how about a six turn
spin would be here we go what's
interesting is that the electronic Adi
doesn't look that much different from an
iron gyro in the midst of the spin that
recovery however it loses lock on which
way is up but it gets it back in about
three seconds an iron gyro would recover
indicating a bank until the veins
redirected the rotor case you missed it
here's the full six turns rapid fire
some days I really love my job
enough of the silliness you can find out
more about the Aspen system by
contacting diamond at Diamond dare calm
for a full review of the Aspen system
see the June 2008 issue of aviation
consumer at aviation consumer calm i'm
paul berger le reporting for ab web and
aviation consumer thanks for watching
you